<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="r_command_blank">
    <title>\blank</title>
    <shortdesc>The <cmdname>\blank</cmdname> command inserts <keyword>skip</keyword> (vertical
        space) into the text block. The command can be used with keywords to indicate preset amounts
        of skip, or with dimensions to create spaces of arbitrary skip.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <metadata>
            <category>spacing</category>
            <prodinfo>
                <prodname>ConTeXt</prodname>
                <vrmlist>
                    <vrm version="ii"/>
                    <vrm version="iv" release="beta"/>
                </vrmlist>
            </prodinfo>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <refbody>
        <refsyn>
            <title>Syntax</title>
            <synph> \blank <delim>[</delim>
                <var>options</var>
                <delim>]</delim>
            </synph>
            <simpletable>
                <sthead>
                    <stentry>Name</stentry>
                    <stentry>Values</stentry>
                    <stentry>Description</stentry>
                </sthead>
                <strow>
                    <stentry>options</stentry>
                    <stentry>none, big, medium, small, line, halfline, quaterline, formula, white,
                        height, depth, standard, preference, samepage, max, force, disable, nowhite,
                        back, <xref keyref="DIMENSION" type="reference"/></stentry>
                    <stentry><p conkeyref="definitions/options_description"/></stentry>
                </strow>
            </simpletable>
        </refsyn>
        <section>
            <title>Options</title>
            <p>Spacing keywords determine how much vertical blank space is added.</p>
            <note>To maintain grid consistency, the amount of skip is different if gridsnapping is
                enabled.</note>
            <note>Not all of these values are not given in absolute units: vertical spacing is
                dependent on the current font size (except \zeropoint which is always 0pt).</note>
            <simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1* 1* 1*" id="simpletable_kw2_fsc_chb">
                <sthead>
                    <stentry>Keyword</stentry>
                    <stentry>Space Without Gridsnapping</stentry>
                    <stentry>Space With Gridsnapping</stentry>
                </sthead>
                <strow>
                    <stentry>none</stentry>
                    <stentry>\zeropoint</stentry>
                    <stentry>\zeropoint</stentry>
                </strow>
                <strow>
                    <stentry>big</stentry>
                    <stentry>\bigskipamount</stentry>
                    <stentry>\bodyfontlineheight</stentry>
                </strow>
                <strow>
                    <stentry>medium</stentry>
                    <stentry>\medskipamount</stentry>
                    <stentry>
                        <p>0.5\bodyfontlineheight</p>
                    </stentry>
                </strow>
                <strow>
                    <stentry>small</stentry>
                    <stentry>\smallskipamount</stentry>
                    <stentry>
                        <p>0.25\bodyfontlineheight</p>
                    </stentry>
                </strow>
                <strow>
                    <stentry>line</stentry>
                    <stentry>\openlineheight</stentry>
                    <stentry>\bodyfontlineheight</stentry>
                </strow>
                <strow>
                    <stentry>halfline</stentry>
                    <stentry>
                        <p>0.5\openlineheight</p>
                    </stentry>
                    <stentry>
                        <p>0.5\bodyfontlineheight</p>
                    </stentry>
                </strow>
                <strow>
                    <stentry>quarterline</stentry>
                    <stentry>0.25\openlineheight</stentry>
                    <stentry>0.25\bodyfontlineheight</stentry>
                </strow>
                <strow>
                    <stentry>formula</stentry>
                    <stentry>\medskipamount</stentry>
                    <stentry>0.5\bodyfontlineheight</stentry>
                </strow>
                <strow>
                    <stentry>white</stentry>
                    <stentry>\parskip</stentry>
                    <stentry>\bodyfontwhitespace</stentry>
                </strow>
                <strow>
                    <stentry>height</stentry>
                    <stentry>
                        <p>\strutht</p>
                    </stentry>
                    <stentry>
                        <p>\bodyfontstrutheight</p>
                    </stentry>
                </strow>
                <strow>
                    <stentry>depth</stentry>
                    <stentry>
                        <p>\strutdp</p>
                    </stentry>
                    <stentry>
                        <p>\bodyfontstrutdepth</p>
                    </stentry>
                </strow>
                <strow>
                    <stentry>standard</stentry>
                    <stentry>
                        <p>0.75\openlineheight</p>
                    </stentry>
                    <stentry>
                        <p>0.75\openlineheight</p>
                    </stentry>
                </strow>
            </simpletable>
            <p>Options to modify the behaviour of how space is placed:</p>
            <simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1* 1*" id="simpletable_yfl_wtc_chb">
                <sthead>
                    <stentry>Keyword</stentry>
                    <stentry>Effect</stentry>
                </sthead>
                <strow>
                    <stentry>preference</stentry>
                    <stentry>good break (<codeph>\penalty-500</codeph>)</stentry>
                </strow>
                <strow>
                    <stentry>samepage</stentry>
                    <stentry>no break (<codeph>\penalty10000</codeph>)</stentry>
                </strow>
                <strow>
                    <stentry>max</stentry>
                    <stentry>Truncate whitespace, but only if larger than indicated.</stentry>
                </strow>
                <strow>
                    <stentry>force</stentry>
                    <stentry>Force this whitespace value.</stentry>
                </strow>
                <strow>
                    <stentry>disable</stentry>
                    <stentry>Ignore the following whitespace.</stentry>
                </strow>
                <strow>
                    <stentry>nowhite</stentry>
                    <stentry>No whitespace.</stentry>
                </strow>
                <strow>
                    <stentry>back</stentry>
                    <stentry>Discard the previous whitespace.</stentry>
                </strow>
            </simpletable>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Notes</title>
            <p>Keywords accept multipliers: to insert whitespace as large as four lines, for
                example, type \blank[4*big].</p>
        </section>
        <example otherprops="output">
            <title>Minimal Working Example</title>
            <p>We can use <cmdname>\blank</cmdname> commands directly in the text flow.</p>
            <codeblock>
\starttext                
Here's our first sentence.
\blank[big]
We need to put more space above and less space below this sentence.
\blank[medium]
Here's our last sentence.
\stoptext
            </codeblock>
        </example>
        <example>
            <title>Extended Example</title>
            <p>[best way to hanbdle this? -PGM]</p>
            <codeblock>
\enableregime[utf]

% To fit all the examples on one page, we need a taller page
\definepapersize[tall][width=15cm, height=35cm]
\setuppapersize[tall]

The table below has a row for each \type{\blank[#1]} keyword, and three columns: 
\startitemize[packed]
\item column 1 demonstrates \type{\blank[#1]} on its own;
\item column 2 shows what \type{\blank[#1]} does when it comes after a \type{\blank[medium]};
\item column 3 shows what does \type{\blank[#1]} when it comes before a \type{\blank[medium]}.
\stopitemize

\defineparagraphs[whiting]
[n=3,
before={\blank[none]},     % Minimal padding, please.
after={\blank[nowhite]}]   %

\definestartstop[whiteafter][
before={\blank[none]} ,    % No padding, please
after={\blank[medium]}     % The blank of interest
]
\definestartstop[whitebefore]
[before={\blank[medium]},  % The blank of interest
after={\blank[none]}       % No padding, please
]

\def\example#1{%
\startwhiting
\type{#1} \crlf
Antelope, caribou, ocelot.
\blank[#1]
Don’t want an antelope nibbling the hoops.
\whiting
medium + {\tt #1}  
% No crlf here, or it'll combine with \blank[none] to create a blank line anyway. 
% (I assume it's equivalent to \crlf\crlf, or something.)
\startwhiteafter
Antelope, caribou, ocelot.
\stopwhiteafter
\blank[#1]
Don’t want an antelope nibbling the hoops.
\whiting
{\tt #1} + medium \crlf
Antelope, caribou, ocelot.
\blank[#1]
\startwhitebefore
Don’t want an antelope nibbling the hoops.
\stopwhitebefore
\stopwhiting
\hairline
}

\starttext

\example{small}
\example{medium}
\example{big}
\example{nowhite}
\example{back}
\example{white}
\example{disable}
\example{reset}     % doesn’t seem to work with mkiv
\example{line}
\example{halfline}
\example{formula}
%\example{fixed}    % mkiv only?
%\example{flexible} % mkiv only?
\example{none}
%\example{samepage} % mkiv only?

\stoptext 
            </codeblock>
        </example>
    </refbody>
    <related-links> </related-links>
</reference>
